#API Documentation

##RSA Keys

###cryptico.generateRSAKey(passphrase, bitlength)

Generates an RSAKey object from a password and bitlength.

*Parameters*

    passphrase: string from which the RSA kay is generated.

    bitlength: integer, length of the RSA key (512, 1024, 2048, 4096, 8192).

*Returns*

    An RSAKey object.

###cryptico.publicKeyString(rsakey)

Returns the public key portion of an RSAKey object in ascii-armored
string form, which allows it to be used on websites and in text files
without fear of corrupting the public key.

*Parameters*

    rsakey: An RSAKey object.

*Returns*

    An ascii-armored public key string.
    
###cryptico.publicKeyID(publicKeyString)

Returns an MD5 sum of a publicKeyString for easier identification.

*Parameters*

    publicKeyString: a public key in ascii-armored string form, as generated by
    the cryptico.publicKeyString function.

*Returns*

    An MD5 sum of the public key string.   

##Encryption

###cryptico.encrypt(plaintext, publicKeyString, signingKey)

Encrypts a string with the provided public key. Optionally signs the encrypted
string with an RSAKey object.

*Parameters*

    plaintext: the string to be encrypted.
    
    publicKeyString: The public key string of the recipient.
    
    signingKey: the RSAKey object of the sender.
    
*Returns*

    status, cipher

    status: "success" if encryption succeeded, "failure" if it failed.
    
    cipher: An ascii-armored encrypted message string, optionally signed.

##Decryption

###cryptico.decrypt(ciphertext, key)

Decrypts an encrypted message with the recipient's RSAKey and verifies the
signature, if any.

*Parameters*

    ciphertext: The encrypted message to be decrypted.
    
    key: The RSAKey object of the recipient.

*Returns*

    status, plaintext, signature, publicKeyString

    status: "success" if decryption succeeded, "failure" if it failed. *Does
    not reflect the status of the signature verification.*

    plaintext: The decrypted message.
    
    signature: "unsigned" if there was no signature, "verified" if it is
    signed and valid, *"forged" if the signature fails verification*.

    publicKeyString: public key string of the signature (presumably the
    sender). *Returned even if the signature appears to be forged*.


#Encryption Technical Documentation

##Key generation

A hash is generated of the user's passphrase using the SHA256 algorithm found at
<a href="http://www.webtoolkit.info/javascript-sha256.html">webtoolkit.info</a>.  
This hash is used to seed 
<a href="http://davidbau.com/archives/2010/01/30/random_seeds_coded_hints_and_quintillions.html">David Bau's seedable random number generator</a>. 
A (seeded) random RSA key is generated with 
<a href="http://www-cs-students.stanford.edu/~tjw/jsbn/">Tom Wu's RSA key generator</a> 
with 3 as a hard-coded public exponent.

##Encryption

A 32-byte AES key is generated with
<a href="http://www-cs-students.stanford.edu/~tjw/jsbn/">Tom Wu's random number generator</a>.
The plaintext message is converted to a byte string and padded with zeros to 16
bytes round.  An initialization vector is created with
<a href="http://www-cs-students.stanford.edu/~tjw/jsbn/">Tom Wu's random number generator</a>.
The AES key is expanded and the plaintext message is encrypted with the
Cipher-block chaining mode using the
<a href="http://point-at-infinity.org/jsaes/">jsaes</a> library.
The AES key is encrypted with the recipient's public key using 
<a href="http://www-cs-students.stanford.edu/~tjw/jsbn/">Tom Wu's RSA encryption library</a>.

The encrypted AES key and encrypted message are ascii-armored and concatenated
with the "?" character as a delimiter.  As an example, here is the result of the
phrase "Matt, I need you to help me with my Starcraft strategy." encrypted with
the passphrase "The Moon is a Harsh Mistress." used to generate the 1024-bit
public key:

<pre>
EuvU2Ov3gpgM9B1I3VzEgxaAVO/Iy85NARUFZb/h+HrOP72degP0L1fWiHO3
RDm5+kWRaV6oZsn91juJ0L+hrP6BDwlIza9x9DBMEsg3PnOHJENG63RXbu0q
PZd2xDJY70i44sufNqHZ0mui9OdNIeE8FvzEOzMtFGCqDx1Z48s=?K3lOtQC
2w+emoR4W3yvAaslSzTj/ZZIkOu3MNTW8y/OX0OxTKfpsaI6zX6XYrM0MpPr
uw7on1N6VUMpNQO8KUVYl4clquaibKs0marXPFH4=
</pre>

##Signing

When signing the encrypted message, two more pieces of information are attached
to the cipher text.  The first is the ascii-armored RSA public key of the
sender. The second piece of information concatenated with the cipher text is
the signature itself, which is generated with the
<a href="http://www9.atwiki.jp/kurushima/pub/jsrsa/">rsa-sign extension by Kenji Urushima</a>, 
along with the SHA256 algorithm found at
<a href="http://www.webtoolkit.info/javascript-sha256.html">webtoolkit.info</a>.  
These two pieces of code are also used when verifying the signature.

The signature is concatenated with the public key with the string
`::52cee64bb3a38f6403386519a39ac91c::` used as the delimiter between the
plaintext, the public key of the sender, and the signature:

<pre>
plaintext
::52cee64bb3a38f6403386519a39ac91c::
public key of sender
::52cee64bb3a38f6403386519a39ac91c::
signature
</pre>

This concatenated block is then encrypted with CBC AES and concatenated with the
encrypted AES key to form the complete encrypted message.